
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Seychelles Oncology Unit Patient Survey Questionnaire <a href="https://www.health.gov.sc/" target="_blank"><img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/f9/Coat_of_arms_of_Seychelles.svg/1200px-Coat_of_arms_of_Seychelles.svg.png" width="150px" align="right" /></a> <a href="https://www.tropicalmedicine.ox.ac.uk/study-with-us/msc-ihtm" target="_blank"><img src="https://podcasts.ox.ac.uk/sites/default/files/image-mirror/unpacking-fundamentals-global-health-towards-new-generation-leadership.png" width="150px" align="right" /></a>

<!-- badges: start -->

[![License for
code](https://img.shields.io/badge/license%20\(for%20code\)-GPL3.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html)
[![test targets
workflow](https://github.com/OxfordIHTM/sc-ca-patient-survey-questionnaire/actions/workflows/test-targets-workflow.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/OxfordIHTM/sc-ca-patient-survey-questionnaire/actions/workflows/test-targets-workflow.yml)
<!-- badges: end -->

This repository is a
[`docker`](https://www.docker.com/get-started)-containerised,
[`{targets}`](https://docs.ropensci.org/targets/)-based,
[`{renv}`](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html)-enabled
[`R`](https://cran.r-project.org/) workflow for the design, development,
and deployment of the **Seychelles Oncology Unit Patient Survey
Questionnaire** in [KoboToolbox](https://www.kobotoolbox.org/).

## About the Project

The research project is entitled *Establishing Quality Indicators for
Cancer Care: A Readiness Assessment of the Oncology Unit, Ministry of
Health (MoH) Seychelles*.

This project seeks to assess existing quality of care structures or
frameworks within the Oncology Unit to serve as a crucial first step in
understanding the gaps in quality measurement and improvement processes.
Findings from this research will inform next steps - i.e. the
development and implementation of actionable standards and quality
indicators or KPIs that are both relevant and feasible within the
resource constraints of Seychelles’ health system.

This project also places a renewed focus on capturing patient views and
experiences to address patient-centred care issues and integrate user
feedback into future quality improvement initiatives within the Oncology
Unit.

### Electronic data collection using KoboToolbox

The design and development of the survey questionnaire is described
[here](https://oxford-ihtm.io/sc-ca-patient-survey-handbook/questionnaire.html).
This repository contains the code and tools (and their documentation)
for deploying and implementing an electronic data collection system for
the survey questionnaire using Kobotoolbox.

KoboToolbox is a free and open-source suite of tools for data
collection, particularly designed for field data collection in
challenging environments. It is widely used in humanitarian,
development, research, and non-profit sectors.

## Repository Structure

The project repository is structured as follows:

    sc-ca-patient-survey-questionnaire
        |-- .github/
        |-- forms/
        |-- R/
        |-- renv/
        |-- _targets.R
        |-- .Rprofile
        |-- packages.R
        |-- renv.lock

  - `.github` contains project testing and automated deployment of
    outputs workflows via continuous integration and continuous
    deployment (CI/CD) using GitHub Actions.

  - `forms` contains archived and release versions of the survey
    questionnaire XLSForms and their associated media files.

  - `R` contains functions developed/created specifically for use in
    this workflow.

  - `renv` contains `{renv}` package specific files and directories used
    by the package for maintaining R package dependencies within the
    project. The directory `renv/library`, is a library that contains
    all packages currently used by the project. This directory, and all
    files and sub-directories within it, are all generated and managed
    by the `{renv}` package. Users should not change/edit these
    manually.

  - `_targets.R` file defines the steps in the workflow’s data ingest,
    data processing, data analysis, and reporting pipeline.

  - `.Rprofile` file is a project R profile generated when initiating
    `{renv}` for the first time. This file is run automatically every
    time R is run within this project, and `{renv{}` uses it to
    configure the R session to use the `{renv}` project library.

  - `packages.R` file lists out all R package dependencies required by
    the workflow.

  - `renv.lock` file is the `{renv}` lockfile which records enough
    metadata about every package used in this project that it can be
    re-installed on a new machine. This file is generated by the
    `{renv}` package and should not be changed/edited manually.

## Reproducibility

### R version

This project was built using `R 4.5.0`. To manage R versions, it is
recommended to use the [`rig` software](https://github.com/r-lib/rig) to
be able to install multiple versions of R and switch between them as
needed.

### R package dependencies

This project uses the `{renv}` framework to record R package
dependencies and versions. Packages and versions used are recorded in
`renv.lock` and code used to manage dependencies is in the `renv`
directory and other files in the root project directory.

On starting an R session in the working directory of this repository,
first run

``` r
renv::restore()
```

to install R package dependencies.

### Environment variables

To be able to run this workflow, the following environment variables
need to be declared beforehand:

#### GitHub Personal Access Token

A GitHub personal access token (GitHub PAT) is needed to interface with
the GitHub API for retrieving information from this project repository.
This is used in the GitHub release forms workflow. To create your GitHub
PAT, you can follow these
[instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic)
or this
[guide](https://oxford-ihtm.io/ihtm-handbook/connecting-git-with-rstudio.html#create-a-github-personal-access-token-pat).

Once you have created your GitHub PAT, store it in your `.Renviron` file
as:

    GITHUB_PAT=YOUR_GITHUB_PAT_HERE

#### KoboToolbox Token

A KoboToolbox token is needed to interface with the KoboToolbox API for
retrieving information from the project’s KoboToolbox server. This will
require a KoboToolbox account from its [EU
server](https://eu.kobotoolbox.org/accounts/signup/) where the project’s
survey forms are hosted. Once you have a KoboToolbox EU server account
and are logged in, you can retrieve your token from
[here](https://eu.kobotoolbox.org/#/account/security) or by visiting
[here](https://eu.kobotoolbox.org/token/?format=json).

Once you have retrieved your token, you should store it in your
`.Renviron` file as:

    KOBOTOOLBOX_TOKEN=YOUR_KOBOTOOLBOX_TOKEN_HERE

You will need to restart your R session in order for these new
environment variables to be sourced and available.

### The workflows

#### The KoboToolbox archive forms workflow

This workflow archives all deployed versions of the patient survey
questionnaire on KoboToolbox. The archives are stored in the directory
path `forms/archive` with each version stored in their own directory
named with the version number of the deployed form.

Currently, the following forms are available from the archive:

    #>  [1] "forms/archive/hcw/v1/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"         
    #>  [2] "forms/archive/hcw/v10/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"        
    #>  [3] "forms/archive/hcw/v11/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"        
    #>  [4] "forms/archive/hcw/v12/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"        
    #>  [5] "forms/archive/hcw/v2/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"         
    #>  [6] "forms/archive/hcw/v3/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"         
    #>  [7] "forms/archive/hcw/v4/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"         
    #>  [8] "forms/archive/hcw/v5/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"         
    #>  [9] "forms/archive/hcw/v6/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"         
    #> [10] "forms/archive/hcw/v7/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"         
    #> [11] "forms/archive/hcw/v8/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"         
    #> [12] "forms/archive/hcw/v9/onco_hcw_questionnaire.xls"         
    #> [13] "forms/archive/patient/v1/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls" 
    #> [14] "forms/archive/patient/v10/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [15] "forms/archive/patient/v11/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [16] "forms/archive/patient/v12/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [17] "forms/archive/patient/v13/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [18] "forms/archive/patient/v14/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [19] "forms/archive/patient/v15/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [20] "forms/archive/patient/v16/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [21] "forms/archive/patient/v17/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [22] "forms/archive/patient/v18/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [23] "forms/archive/patient/v19/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [24] "forms/archive/patient/v2/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls" 
    #> [25] "forms/archive/patient/v20/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [26] "forms/archive/patient/v21/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [27] "forms/archive/patient/v22/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [28] "forms/archive/patient/v23/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [29] "forms/archive/patient/v24/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [30] "forms/archive/patient/v25/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [31] "forms/archive/patient/v26/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [32] "forms/archive/patient/v27/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [33] "forms/archive/patient/v28/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [34] "forms/archive/patient/v29/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [35] "forms/archive/patient/v3/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls" 
    #> [36] "forms/archive/patient/v30/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [37] "forms/archive/patient/v31/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [38] "forms/archive/patient/v32/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [39] "forms/archive/patient/v33/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [40] "forms/archive/patient/v34/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [41] "forms/archive/patient/v35/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [42] "forms/archive/patient/v36/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [43] "forms/archive/patient/v37/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [44] "forms/archive/patient/v38/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"
    #> [45] "forms/archive/patient/v4/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls" 
    #> [46] "forms/archive/patient/v5/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls" 
    #> [47] "forms/archive/patient/v6/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls" 
    #> [48] "forms/archive/patient/v7/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls" 
    #> [49] "forms/archive/patient/v8/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls" 
    #> [50] "forms/archive/patient/v9/onco_patient_questionnaire.xls"

To run the archive forms workflow, the following command should be run
in R console:

``` r
tar_make(dplyr::contains("version_xls"))
```

#### The KoboToolbox deploy forms workflow

This workflow deploys the current patient survey questionnaire version
to KoboToolbox. To run the deploy forms workflow, the following command
should be run in R console:

``` r
tar_make(dplyr::starts_with("kobo_deploy"))
```

#### The GitHub release forms workflow

This workflow creates a GitHub release of the current deployed patient
survey questionnaire version. To run the release forms workflow, the
following command should be run in R console:

``` r
tar_make(dplyr::starts_with("github_release"))
```

## Authors

  - Dr Johanna Rapanarilala - Oncology Unit, Ministry of Health,
    Seychelles
  - Dr Sylvie Pool - Ministry of Health, Seychelles and University of
    Oxford
  - Dr Nyasha Manyeruke - University of Oxford
  - Dr Ernest Guevarra - University of Oxford
